Update Map Guide (#6345)
sunpy/sunpy: docs/guide/data_types/timeseries.rst

    >>> import sunpy.timeseries as ts
    >>> import sunpy.data.sample  # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA
    >>> my_timeseries = ts.TimeSeries(sunpy.data.sample.GOES_XRS_TIMESERIES, source='XRS')  # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA

.. doctest-skip-all

This is calling the `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeries` factory to create a time series from a GOES XRS FITS file.
Note that if you have not downloaded the data already you should get an error and some instruction on how to download the sample data.

The variable ``my_timeseries`` is a :ref:`timeseries` object.
To create one from a local GOES/XRS FITS file try the following: ::

    >>> my_timeseries = ts.TimeSeries('/mydirectory/myts.fits', source='XRS')   # doctest: +SKIP

SunPy will attempt to detect automatically the instrument source for most FITS files.
However timeseries data are stored in a variety of file types (FITS, txt, csv) and formats, and so it is not always possible to detect the source.
For this reason, it is good practice to explicitly state the source for the file.
SunPy ships with a number of known instrumental sources.

> If you would like SunPy to include another instrumental source please follow the `SunPy contribution guide <https://sunpy.org/contribute>`__.

Author: I would link to the [Creating new Subclasses](https://docs.sunpy.org/en/latest/dev_guide/contents/new_objects.html) page, but the TimeSeries part is not written yet. I can make this the link and create an issue for the TimeSeries part of the subclasses guide.

The `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeries` factory has the ability to make a list of TimeSeries objects using a list of filepaths, a folder or a glob, for example: ::

    >>> my_ts_list = ts.TimeSeries('filepath1', 'filepath2', source='XRS')   # doctest: +SKIP
    >>> my_ts_list = ts.TimeSeries('/goesdirectory/', source='XRS')   # doctest: +SKIP

>     >>> my_ts_list = ts.TimeSeries(glob, source='XRS')   # doctest: +SKIP

Author: I think the code you have highlighted here explicitly demonstrates the syntax for creating TimeSeries using the aforementioned methods in the text. Your suggestion covers the syntax of the first method (individual filepaths) but not the syntax of passing TimeSeries a directory or glob.

Note that this functionality will only work with files from the same single source, generating a source specific child of the `~sunpy.timeseries.GenericTimeSeries` class such as the `~sunpy.timeseries.sources.goes.XRSTimeSeries` above.
For this reason, all the files should be from that same source for the `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeries` factory to work as intended.

1.1 Creating a Single TimeSeries from Multiple Files
----------------------------------------------------

You can create a single time series from multiple files for a given source using the keyword argument ``concatenate=True``, such as:

>     >>> my_timeseries = ts.TimeSeries('/mydirectory/myts1.fits', '/mydirectory/myts2.fits', source='XRS', concatenate=True)  # doctest: +SKIP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    >>> my_timeseries = ts.TimeSeries(sunpy.data.sample.GOES_XRS_TIMESERIES, sunpy.data.sample.GOES_XRS_TIMESERIES, source='XRS', concatenate=True)  # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA
```
I wonder what this would do compared to the above example, it probably will be the same.

Note these must all be from the same source if using `~sunpy.timeseries.GenericTimeSeries.concatenate` from within the TimeSeries factory.
However, if time series `~sunpy.timeseries.GenericTimeSeries.concatenate` method can be used to make a single time series from multiple TimeSeries from different sources once they are already in the form of TimeSeries objects.

.. _inspecting-timeseries:

2. Inspecting TimeSeries & Accessing the Data
=============================================

> A time series holds both data as well as meta data and units data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A time series holds both data as well as metadata and unit data.
```

> For a quick look at a TimeSeries, type: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a quick look at a TimeSeries, type:

.. code-block:: python
```

>     >>> my_timeseries  # doctest: +SKIP

Reviewer: I wonder what this prints, maybe we should not skip this.

This will show a table of information taken from the metadata and a preview of your data.
If you execute this command in a Jupyter Notebook, a rich HTML version of this quick look will be shown that includes plots of the data.
Alternatively, the `~sunpy.timeseries.GenericTimeSeries.quicklook` command will show the HTML view in your default browser.

> The meta data for the time series is accessed by: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The meta data for the time series is accessed by:

.. code-block:: python
```

> ****************

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _timeseries_guide:

*********
```

To create the sample `sunpy.timeseries.sources.goes.XRSTimeSeries`, type the following into your interactive Python shell:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> import sunpy.timeseries as ts
    >>> import sunpy.data.sample  # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA
    >>> my_timeseries = ts.TimeSeries(sunpy.data.sample.GOES_XRS_TIMESERIES)  # doctest: +REMOTE_DATA

.. doctest-skip-all

This is calling the `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeries` factory to create a time series from a GOES XRS FITS file.
Note that if you have not downloaded the data already you should get an error and some instruction on how to download the sample data.

The variable ``my_timeseries`` is a :ref:`timeseries` object.
To create one from a local GOES/XRS FITS file try the following:

.. code-block:: python

    >>> my_timeseries = ts.TimeSeries('/mydirectory/myts.fits', source='XRS')   # doctest: +SKIP

**sunpy** will attempt to detect automatically the instrument source for most FITS files.
However timeseries data are stored in a variety of file types (FITS, txt, csv, CDF) and formats, and so it is not always possible to detect the source.
For this reason, it is good practice to explicitly state the source for the file.

> SunPy ships with a number of known instrumental sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**sunpy** ships with a number of known instrumental sources.
```

    dtypes: float32(2)
    memory usage: 659.0 KB

Time series are columnar data so to get at a particular datum you need to first index the column, then the element you want.

> To get the names of the available columns: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the names of the available columns:

.. code-block:: python
```

    >>> my_timeseries.data['xrsa']['2011-06-07 00:00:02.008999']
    1e-09

This will return a list of entries with times that match the accuracy of the time you provide.

> You can consider the data as x or y values: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can consider the data as x or y values:

.. code-block:: python
```

    >>> x = my_timeseries.data.index
    >>> y = my_timeseries.data.values

> You can read more about indexing at the `Pandas documentation website <https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can read more about indexing at the `Pandas documentation website <https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/>`__.
```

> A TimeSeries can also return an Astropy `~astropy.units.quantity.Quantity` for a given column using the `~sunpy.timeseries.GenericTimeSeries.quantity` method, this uses the values stored in the data and units stored in the units dictionary to determine the `~astropy.units.quantity.Quantity`: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A TimeSeries can also return an Astropy `~astropy.units.quantity.Quantity` for a given column using the `~sunpy.timeseries.GenericTimeSeries.quantity` method, this uses the values stored in the data and units stored in the units dictionary to determine the `~astropy.units.quantity.Quantity`:

.. code-block:: python
```

   # Modify the figure here
   fig.savefig('figure.png')

.. _manipulating-timeseries:

4. Manipulating TimeSeries
==========================

4.1 Modifying the Data
----------------------

> Since the timeseries data is stored as a Pandas `~pandas.DataFrame` you can easily modify the data directly using all of the usual Pandas methods: for example, you can modify a single cells value using: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the timeseries data is stored as a `~pandas.DataFrame` you can use all of the usual Pandas methods.
For example, you can modify a single cells value using:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> my_timeseries.data['xrsa']['2012-06-01 00:00'] = 1

Note, you will need to be careful to consider units when modifying the TimeSeries data directly.

> For further details about editing Pandas DataFames you can read the `Pandas documentation website <https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For further details about editing Pandas DataFames you can read the `Pandas documentation website <https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/>`__.
```

Additionally the TimeSeries provides the `~sunpy.timeseries.GenericTimeSeries.add_column` method which will either add a new column or update a current column if the colname is already present.
This can take numpy array or preferably an Astropy `~astropy.units.quantity.Quantity` value.

> For example: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> values = u.Quantity(my_timeseries.data['xrsa'].values[:-2], my_timeseries.units['xrsa']) * 20.5
    >>> my_timeseries.add_column('new col', values)
    <sunpy.timeseries.sources.goes.XRSTimeSeries object at ...>

Note that the values will be converted into the column units if an Astropy `~astropy.units.quantity.Quantity` is given.
Caution should be taken when adding a new column because this column won't have any associated MetaData entry, similarly if you use an array of values it won't add an entry into the units `~collections.OrderedDict`.

4.2 Truncating a TimeSeries
---------------------------

It is often useful to truncate an existing TimeSeries object to retain a specific time range.
This is easily achieved by using the `~sunpy.timeseries.GenericTimeSeries.truncate` method.

> For example, to trim our GOES data into a period of interest use: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to trim our GOES data into a period of interest use:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> from sunpy.time import TimeRange
    >>> tr = TimeRange('2012-06-01 05:00','2012-06-01 06:30')
    >>> my_timeseries_trunc = my_timeseries.truncate(tr)

This takes a number of different arguments, such as the start and end dates (as datetime or string objects) or a `~sunpy.time.TimeRange` as used above.
Note that the truncated TimeSeries will have a truncated `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeriesMetaData` object, which may include dropping metadata entries for data totally cut out from the TimeSeries.

> If you want to truncate using slice-like values you can, for example taking every 2nd value from 0 to 10000 can be done using: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to truncate using slice-like values you can, for example taking every 2nd value from 0 to 10000 can be done using:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> my_timeseries_trunc = my_timeseries.truncate(0,100000,2)

Caution should be used when removing values from the data manually, the TimeSeries can't guarantee Astropy units are correctly preserved when you interact with the data directly.

4.3 Down and Up Sampling a TimeSeries Using Pandas
--------------------------------------------------

Because the data is stored in a Pandas `~pandas.DataFrame` object you can manipulate it using normal Pandas methods, such as the `~pandas.DataFrame.resample` method.

> To downsample you can use: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To downsample you can use:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> downsampled_dataframe = my_timeseries_trunc.data.resample('10T').mean()

Note, here ``10T`` means sample every 10 minutes and 'mean' is the method used to combine the data.
Alternatively the sum method is often used.

> You can also upsample, such as: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also upsample, such as:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> upsampled_data = my_timeseries_trunc.data.resample('30S').ffill()

Note, here we upsample to 30 second intervals using ``30S`` and use the pandas fill-forward method.
Alternatively the back-fill method could be used.
Caution should be used when resampling the data, the TimeSeries can't guarantee Astropy Units are correctly preserved when you interact with the data directly.

4.4 Concatenating TimeSeries
----------------------------

It's common to want to combine a number of TimeSeries together into a single TimeSeries.
In the simplest scenario this is to combine data from a single source over several time ranges, for example if you wanted to combine the daily GOES data to get a week or more of constant data in one TimeSeries.

> This can be performed using the TimeSeries factory with the ``concatenate=True`` keyword argument: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be performed using the TimeSeries factory with the ``concatenate=True`` keyword argument:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> concatenated_timeseries = sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeries(filepath1, filepath2, source='XRS', concatenate=True)  # doctest: +SKIP

Note, you can list any number of files, or a folder or use a glob to select the input files to be concatenated.
It is possible to concatenate two TimeSeries after creating them with the factory using the `~sunpy.timeseries.GenericTimeSeries.concatenate` method.

> For example: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> concatenated_timeseries = goes_timeseries_1.concatenate(goes_timeseries_2)  # doctest: +SKIP

This will result in a TimeSeries identical to if you used the factory to create it in one step.
A limitation of the TimeSeries class is that often it is not easy to determine the source observatory/instrument of a file, generally because the file formats used vary depending on the scientific working groups, thus some sources need to be explicitly stated (as a keyword argument) and so it is not possible to concatenate files from multiple sources with the factory.

> To do this you can still use the `~sunpy.timeseries.GenericTimeSeries.concatenate` method, which will create a new TimeSeries with all the rows and columns of the source and concatenated TimeSeries in one: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this you can still use the `~sunpy.timeseries.GenericTimeSeries.concatenate` method, which will create a new TimeSeries with all the rows and columns of the source and concatenated TimeSeries in one:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> concatenated_timeseries = goes_timeseries.concatenate(eve_timeseries)  # doctest: +SKIP

> Note that the more complex `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeriesMetaData` object now has 2 entries and shows details on both: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the more complex `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeriesMetaData` object now has 2 entries and shows details on both:

.. codeblock:: python
```

>     >>> concatenated_timeseries.meta  # doctest: +SKIP

Reviewer: A general point maybe to consider for a future PR is that I don't like how many of these are skipped. I would prefer working examples one day for the timeseries docs.

The metadata object is described in more detail in the next section.

> 4.5 Creating an Astropy Table from a TimeSeries

Reviewer: I wonder if we even want this section.

    2011-06-07T23:59:53.538999000   1e-09 1.5985e-07
    2011-06-07T23:59:57.631999000   1e-09 1.5985e-07

and the more sophisticated browser view using the `~astropy.table.Table.show_in_browser` method: ::

    >>> table.show_in_browser(jsviewer=True)  # doctest: +SKIP

For further details about editing Astropy tables you can read the `Astropy documentation website <https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/table/>`_.

.. _custom-timeseries:

5. Creating Custom TimeSeries
=============================

Sometimes you will have data that you want to create into a TimeSeries.
You can use the factory to create a `~sunpy.timeseries.GenericTimeSeries` from a variety of data sources currently including `pandas.DataFrame` and `astropy.table.Table`.

5.1 Creating a TimeSeries from a Pandas DataFrame
-------------------------------------------------

A TimeSeries object must be supplied with some data when it is created.
The data can either be in your current Python session, in a local file, or in a remote file.

> Let's create some data and pass it into a TimeSeries object: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create some data and pass it into a TimeSeries object:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> import numpy as np
    >>> intensity = np.sin(np.arange(0, 12 * np.pi, ((12 * np.pi) / (24*60))))

> The first line imports the numpy module used to create and store the data.
> The second line creates a basic numpy array of values representing a sine wave.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating a numpy array of values representing a sine wave to be used as data.
```

We can use this array along with a suitable time storing object (such as Astropy `~astropy.time` or a list of `datetime` objects) to make a Pandas `~pandas.DataFrame`.

> A suitable list of times must contain the same number of values as the data, this can be created using: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A suitable list of times must contain the same number of values as the data, this can be created using:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> import datetime
    >>> base = datetime.datetime.today()
    >>> times = [base - datetime.timedelta(minutes=x) for x in range(24*60, 0, -1)]

> The Pandas `~pandas.DataFrame` will use the dates list as the index: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Pandas `~pandas.DataFrame` will use the dates list as the index:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> from pandas import DataFrame
    >>> data = DataFrame(intensity, index=times, columns=['intensity'])

> This `~pandas.DataFrame` can then be used to construct a TimeSeries: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `~pandas.DataFrame` can then be used to construct a TimeSeries:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> import sunpy.timeseries as ts
    >>> ts_custom = ts.TimeSeries(data)

> Furthermore we could specify the metadata/header and units of this time series by sending them as arguments to the factory: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Furthermore we could specify the metadata/header and units of this time series by sending them as arguments to the factory:

.. codeblock:: python
```

>     >>> from collections import OrderedDict

Reviewer: I wonder if we can remove this, we shouldn't need to use an OrderedDict from my understanding.

    >>> import astropy.units as u

    >>> meta = OrderedDict({'key':'value'})
    >>> units = OrderedDict([('intensity', u.W/u.m**2)])
    >>> ts_custom = ts.TimeSeries(data, meta, units)

5.2 Creating Custom TimeSeries from an Astropy Table
----------------------------------------------------

A Pandas `~pandas.DataFrame` is the underlying object used to store the data within a TimeSeries, so the above example is the most lightweight to create a custom TimeSeries, but being scientific data it will often be more convenient to use an Astropy `~astropy.table.Table` and let the factory convert this.
An advantage of this method is it allows you to include metadata and Astropy `~astropy.units.quantity.Quantity` values, which are both supported in tables, without additional arguments.

> For example: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> import datetime
    >>> from astropy.time import Time
    >>> import astropy.units as u
    >>> from astropy.table import Table

    >>> base = datetime.datetime.today()
    >>> times = [base - datetime.timedelta(minutes=x) for x in range(24*60, 0, -1)]
    >>> intensity = u.Quantity(np.sin(np.arange(0, 12 * np.pi, ((12 * np.pi) / (24*60)))), u.W/u.m**2)
    >>> tbl_meta = {'t_key':'t_value'}
    >>> table = Table([times, intensity], names=['time', 'intensity'], meta=tbl_meta)
    >>> table.add_index('time')
    >>> ts_table = ts.TimeSeries(table)

Note that due to the properties of the `~astropy.time.Time` object, this will be a mixin column which since it is a single object, limits the versatility of the `~astropy.table.Table` a little.

> For more on mixin columns see the `Astropy docs <https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/table/mixin_columns.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more on mixin columns see the `Astropy docs <https://docs.astropy.org/en/stable/table/mixin_columns.html>`__.
```

The units will be taken from the table quantities for each column, the metadata will simply be the table.meta dictionary.

> You can also explicitly add metadata and units, these will be added to the relevant dictionaries using the dictionary update method, with the explicit user-given values taking precedence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also explicitly add metadata and units, these will be added to the relevant dictionaries using the dictionary update method, with the explicit user-given values taking precedence:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> from sunpy.util.metadata import MetaDict
    >>> from collections import OrderedDict
    >>> import astropy.units as u

    >>> meta = MetaDict({'key':'value'})
    >>> units = OrderedDict([('intensity', u.W/u.m**2)])
    >>> ts_table = ts.TimeSeries(table, meta, units)

.. _ts-metadata:

6. A Detailed Look at the Metadata
==================================

TimeSeries store metadata in a `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeriesMetaData` object, this object is designed to be able to store multiple basic `~sunpy.util.metadata.MetaDict` (case-insensitive ordered dictionary) objects and able to identify the relevant metadata for a given cell in the data.
This enables a single TimeSeries to be created by combining/concatenating multiple TimeSeries source files together into one and to keep a reliable track of all the metadata relevant to each cell, column or row.

> The metadata can be accessed by: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The metadata can be accessed by:

.. codeblock:: python
```

    >>> meta = my_timeseries.meta

> You can easily get an overview of the metadata, this will show you a basic representation of the metadata entries that are relevant to this TimeSeries. ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can easily get an overview of the metadata, this will show you a basic representation of the metadata entries that are relevant to this TimeSeries.

.. codeblock:: python
```

The tuple will contain a `~sunpy.time.TimeRange` telling us which rows the metadata applies to, a list of column name strings for which the metadata applies to and finally a `~sunpy.util.metadata.MetaDict` object for storing the key/value pairs of the metadata itself.
Each time a TimeSeries is concatenated to the original a new set of rows and/or columns will be added to the `~pandas.DataFrame` and a new entry will be added into the metadata.
Note that entries are ordered chronologically based on
`~sunpy.time.timerange.TimeRange.start` and generally it's expected that no two
TimeSeries will overlap on both columns and time range.
For example it is not good practice for alternate row values in a single column to be relevant to different metadata entries as this would make it impossible to uniquely identify the metadata relevant to each cell.

If you want the string that's printed then you can use the `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeriesMetaData.to_string` method.
This has the advantage of having optional keyword arguments that allows you to set the depth (number of rows for each entry) and width (total number of characters wide) to better fit your output.

> For example: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:

.. codeblock:: python
```

Similar to TimeSeries objects you can `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeriesMetaData.concatenate` `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeriesMetaData` objects, but generally you won't need to do this as it is done automatically when actioned on the TimeSeries.
Note that when truncating a `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeriesMetaData` object you will remove any entries outside of the given `~sunpy.time.TimeRange`.
You can also `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeriesMetaData.append` a new entry (as a tuple or list), which will add the entry in the correct chronological position.
It is frequently necessary to locate the metadata for a given column, row or cell which can be uniquely identified by both, to do this you can use the `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeriesMetaData.find` method, by adding colname and/or time/row keyword arguments you get a `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeriesMetaData` object returned which contains only the relevant entries.
You can then use the `~sunpy.timeseries.TimeSeriesMetaData.metas` property to get a list of just the relevant `~sunpy.util.metadata.MetaDict` objects.

> For example: ::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example:

.. codeblock:: python
```
